ct XClose
Press Information Bureau
Government of India
Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

04 DEC 2024 7:46PM by PIB Delhi
PMSGMBY Set to Surpass 10 Lakh Installations by March 2025, Targeting One Crore by 2027

PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana (PMSGMBY), the world’s largest domestic rooftop solar scheme, is transforming the
solar energy landscape of India. By March 2025, installations are projected to surpass 10 lakh, ramping up to 20 lakh by
October 2025, 40 lakh by March 2026, and the targeted one crore by March 2027. Within just 9 months of PMSGMBY, 6.3
lakh installations have been achieved—an average of 70,000 per month. This marks a ten-fold increase in monthly
installations compared to the average of 7,000 per month prior to the launch of the scheme in February 2024. States such as
Gujarat, Maharashtra, Kerala, and Uttar Pradesh have demonstrated exceptional progress, reflecting robust infrastructure

and stakeholder collaboration.

The early progress of PMSGMBY is a testament to the solid groundwork being laid, and the scheme is on track for

accelerated growth in the coming months, paving the way for a sustainable future in rooftop solar energy.
Implementation Challenges quickly resolved for Faster Rollout

Initial implementation challenges were effectively addressed to accelerate the rollout. DISCOMs undertook auto-load
enhancements to ensure the necessary power load capacity, while regulatory barriers were reduced by waiving Technical
Feasibility Reports (TFR) for systems up to 10kW. Timely inspections by DISCOMs expedited subsidy releases, and
measures ensured the availability of net meters. Efforts to expand the vendor base supported rapid deployment,

complemented by affordable financing options through the Jan Samarth Portal for systems up to 3kW.
Building Infrastructure for Large-Scale Deployment

Building robust IT systems to integrate over 90 DISCOMs, banks, and other stakeholders was critical to coordinating
operations at this scale. Vendor development has been a priority, with nearly 9,000 vendors activated and more joining daily.
Capacity-building initiatives have trained 40,000 personnel, to ensure high-quality installations and service delivery. An
additional 2 lakh technicians will be trained over the next eight months. Furthermore, more than 50,000 DISCOM engineers

are receiving specialized training to inspect and commission rooftop solar plants and provide net meters.

Simplifying Consumer Processes
The scheme has also significantly simplified consumer processes. Previously, applicants had to submit multiple documents
and make repeated visits to DISCOM offices. Now, most DISCOMs have waived Technical Feasibility approvals for
systems under 10kW and digitized their processes, reducing the documentation burden and streamlining applications.
Application can now be filed in 5 minutes on www.pmsuryaghar.gov.in, which also allows shortlisting and selecting
vendors. Applicant can also use the GIS feature of the portal to see his roof and plan the capacity of rooftop solar system.
Loan at 7% interest rate could also be applied seamlessly on the portal itself. After installation details can also be uploaded
within minutes. Portal automatically informs the DISCOM to inspect, after which applicant could redeem subsidy also on

the portal.

Efficient Subsidy Disbursement

Efficient subsidy disbursement has been another key achievement. Following the conclusion of the Model Code of Conduct
in June 2024, disbursements commenced promptly. By November 2024, over 23,100 crore had been disbursed to more than
four lakh consumers. With an average of 67,000 households receiving subsidies monthly, the scheme demonstrates
operational robustness and a commitment to timely financial support. Subsidies are now processed within 15 days,

enhancing consumer satisfaction.

Satisfied Households
